---
date: 8-18-2017
---

In this session, we focus on [[corny]], [[quiggers]], and [[dave]].

Corny follows [[mokrab]] into her workshop. It is full of beakers and test
tubes and a mess of papers and books. In one corner is a pile of metal objects
which Corny recognizes. On a table in the center of the room, sitting on a
dissecting dish is a flickering green plant. Mokrab tells Corny that this is
what he is here to help her with. Corny tries to get Mokrab to promise that his
friends will go free if he helps her. This conversation goes...somewhere, and
at some point Mokrab tries to surprise Corny and he trips a bit and grabs the
table for support, coming into contact with the plant (seriously, I have no
memory of what happened here). The plant's roots begin winding their way around
Corny's arm. Reaching within himself, Corny makes the table glow a
reddish-purple, causing the plant to screech and release him. Mokrab is
impressed, asking him to teach her how to conjure up this purple magic.

Meanwhile, Quiggers, [[pomin]], and [[stol]] are walking down the hall when
Pomin notices a sign posted outside an office. Pomin can read it: it is a list
of names, each with a time next to them. The names of the entire party are on
the list! Pomin infers that this is their execution schedule, and
[[loostiun]]'s execution is soon! Pomin (with enthusiastic help from Stol)
convinces Quiggers to help her save him, and they begin heading to level 1
section 83, the site of the executions.

[[dave]] is already there, however. After stopping by [[danid|his mom]]'s
living quarters and office, they decide to join hundreds of other orcs in
watching the execution. The room the executions are held in is a massive
colosseum-like space, extending down three levels of [[folendemkar]]. Dave and
Danid sit in the bleachers eating [[popshrooms|orcish popcorn]] as Loostiun
sits shackled to a chair on a wooden platform in the center of the auditorium.
A guard stands beside him, holding a black cloth hood in one hand.  Surrounding
the platform are four more guards, two armed with maces and the other two with
swords.

Quiggers and crew arrive at the entrance to the chamber on the highest level.
A short corridor leads out to the main body of the colosseum and the top row of
seats. An orc sits bored at a table at the end of the corridor, waiting to
check bags, but as the party does not have any bags with them, he waves them
past. The party runs down the aisle between columns of seats, trying to reach
the guard rail at the bottom. Dave sees them as they pass, hands his popshrooms
to Danid, and runs down after them.

Not long after Corny fends off the plant with magic, the door to the workshop
swings open and a guard stands in the doorway. "Blight! Blight in the
dungeons!" he yells, and then promptly faints. Corny and Mokrab rush out into
the hallway to see a [[blight|blight]] spore in the shape of [[ken]] standing
to their left. They are walking towards it when a second one appears in the
workshop doorway (did the first one attack before this???), this one in the
form of Corny himself! The pair stands back to back, Mokrab attempting to
defend herself with a small white light glowing in her hand. This light does
nothing to ward off the Corny spore, however, and it appears suddenly closer
with its hand in her chest, bringing her to her knees. Slightly panicked, the
two retreat back into the workshop, closing the door behind them.  The spores
phase through the door.

Dave meanwhile is having no luck convincing the trio to stay put and give up on
saving Loostiun. Stol keeps trying to climb over the railing, and Dave keeps
picking him up and putting him back down. Eventually, Dave gives up and rejoins
his mother as the three climb down and make their way towards the platform
Loostiun is sitting on.

The guards take notice and start heading their way. Quiggers deftly disarms one
and stabs him with his own sword. Pomin duels hand-to-sword with a second
before taking him out. Stol stands at a distance making punching motions in the
air. The two remaining, both with maces, get closer.  By this point, the
executioner has placed the hood on Loostiun's head, and is beginning to strike
fire to it using flint and steel.

Quiggers launches one of the remaining guards with a blast of earth, but is
seriously injured by the other one. This guard slowly approaches Quiggers, his
mace at the ready. Just then, however, something happens.

Dave watches the scene unfolding on the platform. The hood has just caught, and
Loostiun's head is enveloped in flames. But then Dave blinks, and it is the
executioner shackled in the chair, and Loostiun standing next to him, a slight
smirk on his face. He blinks again, and Loostiun's stuffy, academic outfit is
gone, replaced by a dark black robe and hood raised over his head. The guard
standing over Quiggers suddenly falls dead, collapsing on top of him. The mage
in the robe looks directly at Dave, picking him out from the entire audience.

Dave stands up and begins making his way down to the ground. The guard Quiggers
wounded with his own sword goes limp as if dead, but then suddenly reaches out
and grabs Dave by the ankle as he passes. Dave shakes him off and makes his way
to Quiggers, helping him out from under the dead orc. The executioner is
screaming now, still shackled on the platform. As the hood burns, it becomes
increasingly transparent, only to reveal the orc's face does not match his
screams. His face under the hood is calm, placid even, his mouth closed and
unmoving, while his voice yells out louder than ever.

Dave blinks, and the [[the_necromancer|mage who was Loostiun]] is only a few
feet in front of him.  "Hello Dave," he says. "Long time no see." Dave
recognizes him as one of the necromancers he used to travel with, who he left
long ago. The remaining dead orc guards rise to their feet and approach the
party.  The Necromancer says he needs to see a wizard friend of theirs, they
blink, and he's vanished.

The screams of the executioner slowly fade. His hood is gone now, leaving just
a calm, blank-faced orc shackled to a chair, bearing no marks of the flames. As
the crowd rushes to leave and the undead orcs shamble their way towards the
party, Dave, Pomin, and Stol help the injured Quiggers out of the chamber
towards Danid's office, where they patch him up and then reroute to Mokrab's
workshop to confront the Necromancer.

Corny and Mokrab, meanwhile, are shut in the workshop with two spores which
just phased through the door. Thinking fast, Corny grabs a metal tube off the
table against the wall. It is mostly cylindrical, with an opening on one end
and a flattened section on the other. Corny points the opening towards the
spores and flips a mechanism. A burst of purple light shoots out of the tube
and hits the spores. After the ensuing flash fades from their eyes, only one
remains.

By the time Dave, Quiggers, and crew arrive at the workshop, the Necromancer is
already inside. Dave kicks down the door, taking out the one remaining blight
spore. The Necromancer demands Corny send him back to where Corny came from.
Quiggers dashes at him to fight, but he blinks and the Necromancer has his hand
around his neck. He squeezes, and everything goes black.

But then he can suddenly see again. He's still in his body, but he no longer
has any control. He died, and has been reanimated by the Necromancer. The
Necromancer looks at Dave and smiles. "There are many paths to freedom," he
says. Then Dave blinks, and he, Pomin, and Stol are outside the workshop with
the door closed. All Dave's weapons and armor are back with him. But try as he
might, he cannot open the door or find out what is happening inside.
