---
date: 8-11-2017
---

We open on everyone in their cells in the [[folendemkar]] dungeons, awaiting
their fate.

[[fluffy]] crawls around the cell she shares with [[corny]], looking for
anything useful. She sees some roots poking through the wall near the ceiling,
and notices that the guards outside pass by the door on a regular schedule.

Then she becomes suddenly sleepy. As a druid, she has not ever really _needed_
to eat or sleep. However, she feels the need now, and gives in to this
exhaustion, finding herself once again in utter darkness, with a faint light in
the distance. She approaches the light, and again sees the [[moktan|huge orc]],
this time standing before an anvil. "Thank you for coming when I called," he
says, and puts down his hammer.

He senses in Fluffy, he says, the same desire he possesses to tear down
civilization. The orcs have become soft and weak, and destroying what they have
built here is the best way to bring them back to their old, warlike glory. He
asks her to be his agent in the world of the living, and to help him bring
about this destiny.

Fluffy asks what she would get in return. The orc god smiles. When she next
returns to his realm, he says, he will make sure she has special consideration
on whether her stay will be permanent. She accepts his bargain, and feels a
sudden burning in her right paw. The symbol of a crescent moon hanging over an
anvil is now burned into it. She wakes up.

[[dave]]'s cell is better furnished than the others', larger, with a small wash
basin and mattress against the wall. Dave doesn't have too long to wait however
before [[danid|his mother]] is there to visit him. She says she had to be
interrogated after what happened, and that while she was found innocent, the
same could not be said for Dave's friends. She begs him to give up this
nonsense, and just come stay with her in Folendemkar, at least for a little
while. Dave says he isn't leaving without his friends, and asks to speak to the
person in charge. His mother heads off to get someone.

After some time, another orcish face appears outside the bars. She introduces
herself as [[gautil]], head of the [[club_and_hammer]], effectively
Folendemkar's border control. She says that Dave's "mommy" pulled some strings
to get him released. She could not do the same for his friends. Eventually,
Dave agrees to leave his cell and enter Folendemkar (was there more argument or
something involved here???). Gautil unlocks the door, and they head down the
hall together.

[[quiggers]] is thrown in his cell, and hears the familiar sound of [[stol]]
yelling (????) one cell over. A few times, he calls the nearby guard over to
his cell, just to annoy him. The guard ends up slamming his palms against the
door to startle Quiggers, then walks back to his post chuckling.

Quiggers and Stol start up a conversation (about what????). [[pomin]], who is
two cells over, joins in. Through this conversation, Quiggers senses that Pomin
might know more about the [[blight]] than she had previously let on. He presses
her on it, and eventually she concedes that she picked up a decent amount of
knowledge from [[ken]] on their travels. She says that the Blight is a disease,
but not one that affects people. It only spreads through infecting plants. The
flickering green creatures they have encountered are only spores, which take
humanoid form as a way of scaring off potential predators. In actuality, the
Blight is a disease of the earth.

Corny, after his long dream-filled sleep, wakes up in the dark cell he shares
with Fluffy. Upon his inspection of the cell, he finds the same things Fluffy
found. However, the roots which she noticed towards the ceiling are now faintly
glowing green, and flickering, and very slowly inching their way down the wall.

At about this time, an orc appears outside the cell door. She introduces
herself as [[mokrab]], and even goes so far as to say Corny's entire name in
the process. She says she heard of Corny's recent impressive accomplishments
reaching back in time, and invites him to stay in Folendemkar to help her in
her research. Corny responds well to the flattery, but goes a bit too far in
self-praise, leading Mokrab to say that he's full of shit, and that she just
figured stroking his ego would be the best way to get him to help her. There
aren't many good magicians around Folendemkar, she says, and like it or not
he's the best chance for an assistant she has.

Fluffy tries to sneak into Corny's hat, but Mokrab notices and says she only
has permission to take Corny out. So Corny leaves the room, Mokrab hands him
his staff and other gear, and they head down the hallway together. Fluffy,
waiting for the window between guards, transforms into a bat and flies through
the bars after them.

[[halt]], after breaking his wrist, hears a voice from a cell over. "Didja hurt
yourself?" it asks. Halt tries to save face, but the person in the other cell
sees through it. He introduces himself as [[kaea|Kaea]], and asks if Halt wants
to get out of here. He himself is imprisoned because he was trying to steal
from Folendemkar's treasury, and he plans on making another attempt. A sound of
scraping and tinkling metal comes from the cell, and after a minute, the door
creaks open. Halt hears a guard shout "Hey there!", run to the door, and then
grunt and fall to the ground.

A handsome, smiling human face appears outside Halt's window. Kaea unlocks the
door and lets Halt out, bowing and saying "Prince of Thieves, at your service."
Halt quickly checks for a weapon on the body of the dead guard, but Kaea holds
up a bloody dagger and says "Already got it." Kaea quickly splints up Halt's
wrist, and they both head out to burgle the treasury.

Halt follows Kaea through the twisting passageways, when suddenly he hears a
few familiar voices. They are passing by Quiggers, Pomin, and Stol. Kaea kills
the guard there, and agrees to let them all go as long as they don't tag along
to the treasury. He can't deal with too much dead weight. Halt grabs the dagger
off the dead guard, and they all continue on to what appears to be a storage
room.

Halt decides to check out all the boxes for potential supplies. While
searching, however, he topples some over. A bow, some arrows, and a pair of
gauntlets fall out, and he grabs them, while guards head towards the room. Kaea
shifts a pile of boxes away from the wall, revealing a hole, and the group one
by one crawls through it. The guards are too big to fit in after them.

They crawl for a distance, and then Kaea in the lead shifts his body and drops
straight down what appears to be a chute. The rest of the party follows, with
only minor injuries. Halt falls into a pile of animal poop. They have landed in
what appeared to be an underground stable. A heap of hay sits against one wall,
a trough of water against another. In the middle, two strange gray creatures
with huge bodies like seals or manatees and flat faces like apes flop around.
The group has managed to get into Folendemkar.

Dave and Corny, however, are led inside through the front. They run into each
other outside the gate, Dave led by Gautil, and Corny led by Mokrab. The huge
gate grinds open, Gautil leaves Dave to enter the city on his own, and they
head inside. Fluffy, still a bat, follows them.

They walk down another passage, now well-lit with sconces on the walls. This is
more of a hallway than a tunnel, wider and less rough than the way that led
them from the surface to the gate. Eventually they arrive at a wooden fence. It
opens for them, and beyond is the massive entrance chamber of Folendemkar.

Orcs flitter around the edges of this circular open space, buying and selling
items at the hundreds of shops lining the walls. The shops themselves are dug
into the stone, with wooden awnings and counters and displays built in front.
Torches keep the cavern fairly bright, an impressive feat considering the
ceiling is several hundred feet up. In the center of this chamber is a gigantic
stone conical structure whose point just contacts the roof. Around the base of
the structure are tunnel entrances leading down into the body of the city. Each
is labeled with some orcish numeral.

Dave and Corny both need to head to level 5, so they and Mokrab head down the
tunnel capped by the orcish "5" glyph. From there, Dave heads to section 7 to
see his mom, Corny and Mokrab go to her workshop in section 34, and Fluffy
begins exploring the level.
