---
date: 6-30-2017
---

The group of adventurers [[quiggers]], [[fluffy]], [[halt]], [[corny]], and
[[dave]] are hired by a merchant named [[stol]] to escort him and his
woodworking wares north to the Capital.

They all wait for Stol in the [[greasy_badger]], a dodgy tavern in
[[pofoofflin]].  When he arrives, he is unsure about where the fifth member of
the party is, and refers to Fluffy as a pet. Fluffy launches herself at Stol's
face for the first roll of the game, but Dave catches her in midair with one
hand while eating chicken with the other.

Stol, shaken, is eventually convinced by Corny to still hire the party. He
gives the party four rations, and is unsure who to give the fifth to, so Halt's
wolf [[scath]] takes it. The party agrees to regroup at first light the next
day outside the [[well-groomed_badger]] to begin their trip.

That night, the party splits up to sleep. Corny spends the last of his coin to
stay at the Well-Groomed Badger. Dave and Halt sleep in the barn out back of
the Greasy Badger. Quiggers sleeps inside in a room instead. Fluffy sleeps in
the nearby trees.

The next morning, the party meets with Stol by his cart. Stol is still unsure
about where the fifth member of the party is, but accepts it. The party heads
north!

Corny, serving as the trailblazer, has the clever idea to lead the party the
long way through the woods rather than traveling over open ground, because
bandits are of course less likely to find them if they're in the woods!
Unfortunately, during the night while (who?) is taking watch, a group of
[[thieves_guild|bandits]] strikes!

Two bandits sneak into attempt to sneak into the camp while three others fire
arrows from the trees. Dave cuts one of the ones on the ground clean in half.
Halt manages to injure one in a tree. Fluffy sends a squad of squirrel friends
after another, only to have them all killed. Corny tries spinning too much
while casting magic missile, and ends up once dropping his staff, and once
conking himself on the head. The remaining one on the ground holds Quiggers
hostage, only to be stabbed by Dave and then killed by Quiggers.

An archer is knocked out of her tree by Halt, and then killed with an arrow
after Sc√°th rushes at her, distracting her.  Corny finally manages to cast
magic missile into another tree, blowing up one of the remaining archers. The
[[tefol|final archer]] is knocked out of his tree when Dave throws Fluffy into
his face. On his back, his bow broken, badly injured, he rasps out "Why don't
you just kill me?"
