---
date: 9-30-2017
---

We rejoin the party after some time. They have retreated back to [[danid]]'s
quarters with [[kaea]] (possessed by [[moktan]]), and have begun to devise
their schemes against [[folendemkar]].

They decide that the best way to bring the orcs back to their previous warlike
state without causing too much destruction is to mobilize them in a war against
the [[blight]]. They still feel lacking in details on this disease, however,
and ask Kaea what he knows about it. He says he hasn't seen the Blight for many
ages, but that it is weak to the same things the party already knew of: purple
magic, and to a lesser extent fire. He does say, however, that the last time it
was defeated was in this very city by an orcish magician named [[kidal]]. In
fact, she is buried beneath their feet in the crypts below.

[[halt]] manages to convince Kaea to let them check out Kidal's tomb, because
if there's anything there to help them fight the Blight, the orcs will be more
willing to go to war with it. And so, they head down.

The crypts are on level 11, the furthest depths of Folendemkar. None of the
Blight have reached this deep yet, and people are for the most part just going
about their daily lives. The people themselves become fewer and fewer the
deeper they go, however, until they finally arrive at a stone door marked
"Crypt" on level 10. It opens onto a tunnel leading down, with unlit torches
along the walls. They light a torch using one of the sconces in the hallway,
and head downwards.

The hallway lets off into a labyrinth of interconnected hallways, all meeting
at right angles, and many ending in stone doors with family names above them.
The tombs closest to the entrance are in alphabetical order, but as they go
deeper and the tombs get newer, the organization falls apart. It is clear the
oldest tombs were set up all at once when the older burial grounds were moved
here, and newer tombs are just dug out as they're needed.

Close to the entrance the party finds the Dal tomb, which should house Kidal
and her family line. It is locked with something which looks like it could be
unlocked with some ancient iron key. [[fluffy]] transforms into a black widow
spider, which bears the sign of the anvil and sickle moon on its back where
normally there would be an hourglass. She climbs through the lock into the
room, on the other side transforms into a komodo dragon, and unlatches the
door. It grinds open.

Inside is a small chamber. Ten drawers are set into the walls, each bearing the
name of the person buried there. And through a short passage around the corner
comes a faint purple light.

The party cautiously peers around the corner. Beyond is another chamber of
about the same size. A single drawer is set into the wall directly across from
them bearing the name Kidal, and above it like an undying flame is an old
rusted candle lantern, glowing purple. Writing in some ancient orcish dialect
covers the walls.

After walking inside, [[dave]] notices that much of the writing is concentrated
around the inside of the door frame. He can make out bits and pieces of the
languages. He recognizes some spell casting vocabulary which was borrowed in
some form into modern orcish. He also makes out what he thinks is the word for
"water" co-occurring often with the spell-related words.

While looking at the writing, however, Dave realizes there's something unusual
about the names on the drawers in the main body of the tomb. Not all of the
drawers had the matronymic "Dal" on them. In fact, four of them all next to
each other had totally different names!

Fluffy and Halt also look around during this time. Fluffy determines that the
lantern looks like any object that [[corny]] might have enchanted to glow
purple at some point. She intuits that any powerful magical artifacts are more
likely to be well hidden in this tomb, potentially buried with the bodies
themselves.

Halt comes to a similar conclusion regarding traps. If the tomb was so easy to
get into, he reasons, there is likely to be more subtle and dangerous traps
guarding whatever is valuable here. (did halt ask other questions?????)

Fluffy turns into a pygmy owl and flies up to ask Kaea what he might know about
the writing on the wall. While she flies up, Dave and Halt continue looking
around. They hear footsteps coming down the hallway towards the tomb.

Fluffy meanwhile tries to convince Kaea to come down to the tomb to look at the
writing. He agrees to, on the condition she help him first. She follows him
down the secret hallway towards the gardens, where [[gautil]], [[pomin]], and
the [[club_and_hammer]] are still fighting the Blight. They arrive unnoticed by
the fighting parties, and Kaea points at Pomin. He says "Her, the mage, you
will kill her. Now."

Fluffy tries to convince Kaea that she is a powerful ally against the Blight,
and so she should be kept alive to encourage the orcs to fight. Kaea agrees,
and tells her to kill Gautil instead. Pomin turns around and looks at them,
apparently alerted to their presence by the sound of their voices, as Fluffy
transforms into a komodo dragon again and runs along the ledge on the side of
the room. Pomin tracks her as she arrives close to Gautil and leaps off the
ledge at her. Acting reflexively and defensively, Pomin fires a blast of magic
at Fluffy and hits her in midair, but she still manages to transform into a
bear and land on top of Gautil, ripping into her with her massive claws. Pomin
looks on in horror when suddenly Kaea appears behind her and holds his sickle
against her neck. "Finish her," he says, nodding towards Gautil, and Fluffy
bites her neck, killing her.

Back in the tomb, Halt and Dave hide, ready to surprise their potential
attacker. Halt stands in the rear corner on the side of the footsteps, his bow
at the ready. Dave waits at the opposite corner with his sword. The short
figure of [[stol]] steps through the door, and before he can stop himself Dave
brings his sword down in a long slash. He manages to veer the sword off to the
side, however, and it strikes the ground. They hear a low hum, and the purple
light in the adjacent room strengthens. The door quickly swings shut of its own
accord. They are trapped.

With their options limited, Dave and Halt decide to pivot to grave robbing and
pull out one of the non-Dal drawers. It slides out and slams onto the ground.
Inside is an orc skeleton, its bones thicker and better fortified than that of
humans. It wears a decorative helmet and breastplate, both emblazoned with the
emblem of the anvil and sickle moon, and lies next to a polearm. In the hollow
space in the wall behind the drawer is a faint purple light. Dave looks into
the drawer below it to find the skeleton there is attired in the same way,
laying this time next to a mace, and he pulls that drawer out as well. He
reaches down to grab a helmet and place it on his head.

Halt meanwhile is in the adjacent room. The extra purple light from earlier he
noticed is from the words on the walls, which have begun to glow. He reaches up
and yanks the glowing lantern off the wall. It easily snaps off in his hands.
Dave feels the weight of the helmet and fits it on his head. He looks down at
the skeleton he took it from, and behind the bones he sees only a void. There
is a black nothingness behind the ribs and within the eye sockets. And then,
the darkness in the eyes briefly flickers away, revealing the back of the
skull. It does this a few more times, as if it is blinking.

Fluffy runs away from the body of Gautil, back towards the entrance to the
gardens. She looks back over her shoulder, only to see Kaea slit Pomin's
throat. She falls dead to the ground.
