---
date: 8-4-2017
---

After [[dave]]'s mother [[danid]] runs out to greet Dave, she asks to be
introduced to his friends. They all introduce themselves, and she expresses her
approval that he's not hanging out with those two necromancers anymore.

She then leads the way down the tunnel she came out of. It is dark, with no
torches to light it, and it slopes slowly downwards. Eventually, the party
arrives at a great stone gate. Dave recognizes the writing on it. It's a
collection of poetry in [[grazhoi|orcish]], each poem in a small, artistic
unit, like in Arabic calligraphy. The poems lower down on the gate appear
older, more worn. They all follow related themes of war, conquest, and power.
However, as Dave's eyes move up the wall, he sees that the poems slowly change
topic as they grow more recent. The ones at the top of the gate center around
peace, and love, and community. Dave knows this is the civilization of
[[folendemkar]].

Guards at the gate ask the party to leave their weapons safely with them during
their visit. Most members of the party hand over their weapons. [[corny]]
convinces the guards that he's an old man and [[quiggers]] is his grandson, so
they don't take his staff. Dave manages to conceal one dagger on his person.

Things don't go so well for [[halt]], however. He is mistaken for [[ken]],
apparently a criminal wanted by the authorities of Folendemkar for killing
their leader. Halt in a panic looks towards the real Ken, but sees her face has
changed in some sort of disguise attempt. He shoots an arrow at her and kills
her.

At this point, guards quickly grab Halt, shackle his arms behind his back, and
drag him down a side tunnel. Everyone else is ushered down a different tunnel
to a small, cell-like room for questioning. Halt is thrown into a dark cell.
He manages to get his shackled arms out in front of him, but at the cost of
breaking his right wrist.

In the interrogation room, a guard asks the party how they came to ally
themselves with Ken. Confused, Dave tries to explain that they just met Ken on
the surface a short time ago, and that she was killed by Halt just moments
earlier. The guard chalks up the name "Halt" to just more of Ken's trickery,
but decides that the party was not aware of her identity and didn't wittingly
help her get into Folendemkar. They are free to go.

[[fluffy]] and Corny, however, decide to go searching for Halt. Corny attempts
to turn Fluffy invisible, and succeeds, but he is immediately identified by the
guards as a "[[mage|magician]]", and falls unconscious as a side effect of the
spell, turning Fluffy visible again.

While the guards are distracted with Corny, however, Fluffy manages to follow
them unnoticed as they drag him down various tunnels towards his cell. But then
the guards turn and notice her, yelling something about it being the tree rat
they saw with the party earlier.  She dodges around the one nearest to her as
he slashes his sword down into the ground all around her, and she leaps onto
the shoulder of the one by the door, hoping to springboard from there through
the small barred window into Corny's cell.

However, she is too slow. The guard slams his hand down on top of her as if he
were swatting a fly, and she is plunged into darkness.

She sees, in the distance, a faint light. Nothing else is around her. No
ground, so sky, no air. She walks towards the light. As she approaches, it
begins to take the form of a [[moktan|huge orc]], sitting in a massive throne.
(what actually happens here?????).

Corny, despite being unconscious, had been hard at work, however. From his
cell, he dreams of his father, standing with him on a balcony, (details????).
But then, in his slumber, he senses that Fluffy is about to pass into the world
of the dead. He reaches back in time and opens up a portal by the orc guard's
head, right before he squashes Fluffy on his shoulder. He shoots his hand out
and pushes Fluffy into his cell, confusing the guard and landing her right next
to Corny's past, unconscious body.

The guards are confused, but decide to keep them both in that cell as they
round up the rest of the party and drag them into their own cells.

Everyone sits in darkness now, alone with their own thoughts. Fluffy is alive,
but each person present in the dungeons cannot shake the feeling that she is
dead, and that they distinctly remember exactly how it happened.
