---
date: 9-2-2017
---

The party meets up outside [[mokrab]]'s workshop. [[dave]], [[stol]] and
[[pomin]] have just been transported out of the workshop.

[[fluffy]] in bat form had been searching around the level for a while. While
wandering around, she discovered a possible escape route through the loading
area where goods are delivered to the city. She also encountered the bureaucrat
responsible for all these deliveries, and realized that among all the
bureaucracy of the [[folendemkar]] government, this particular orc may hold a
good deal of power.

She also discovered something more foreboding through echolocation. Deep
somewhere among the twisting hallways, she sensed a mass of bodies, each
flickering in and out of physical existence. A large number of
[[blight|blight]] spores were heading their way. She eventually ran into
[[halt]] and [[kaea]] just after Halt finished washing the poop off of him in a
water trough for the manatee creatures, and then ran into Dave and company
further down the hall.

Kaea introduces himself jovially to the group as "Kaea, prince of thieves", and
says he and Halt have got to be going. Dave insists on following (and Stol is
pretty excited about it as well), and Kaea looks Dave's bulk up and down.
"Well, I guess I'm not going to win this argument", he says, and lets them
follow. Pomin stays behind to work on getting into the workshop.

Kaea leads them through confusing, winding passageways until they arrive at a
large, metal door with two orcs with spears guarding it. They hide around the
corner, and Kaea attempts to get Dave to go over and talk to them, to see if he
can bring one over to be ambushed. Dave refuses to take part in harming his
people, so he pushes Halt out.

Halt tries to explain that he's just a tourist who fell into some literal shit,
and one of the guards offers to show him the way to the Diplomacy Office. As
they both approach the corner everyone is hiding around, Fluffy turns into a
bat, startling Dave, and two things happen: the guard notices them all around
the corner, and they realize Kaea is no longer next to them, but is standing
with his knife in the neck of the guard by the door. Kaea says "I got one, now
it's your turn!"

Halt stabs the guard in the side with his dagger, but then is pushed back and
stabbed with the spear. He manages however to throw his dagger into the guard's
face, killing him.

Dave, fed up with killing his people, walks up to Kaea and punches him hard,
slamming his face into the metal door and making a very pretty face less
pretty. Kaea then covers himself in his cloak and vanishes.

Using Fluffy's echolocation, the party manages to find their way back to the
main hallway of level 5. From a distance behind them as they go, however,
Fluffy's bat ears hear the sound of a metal door squeaking open.

When they arrive in the hallway, they see [[danid]], standing with four guards
and Pomin shackled hands behind her back in front of Mokrab's door. Danid
pleads Dave to stop all this, and just come home to her. The guards start
approaching them. They turn around to go the opposite direction, only to see
the hoard of Blight Fluffy had sensed earlier heading down the tunnel towards
them. Frightened, Dave's mom starts heading with the party towards her office
while the four guards move in to handle the Blight. Halfway there, Dave looks
over his shoulder to see two have already been killed, and the other two are in
a bad position as Blight begin to pass them.

They get into Danid's office and she closes the door behind them, bolting it
with a wooden bar. She begins rummaging through papers and goes into her living
quarters, which are in the back. When asked, Pomin tells the party what she
told Quiggers, that the Blight spreads by infecting plants. Danid hears this
and is immediately concerned about [[gardens|the Gardens]]. She tells them that
she's the council member in charge of agriculture. They decide to see if
burning plants kills the blight, and they gather torches and flint, and head
out a secret passageway behind a bookshelf (Danid says these passages are very
old, existing in case the leaders of Folendemkar needed to escape for any
reason).

Further down the hallway, Danid tries to knock on the backside of a bookshelf
leading into the office of [[gautil]], head of the [[club_and_hammer]]. There
is no answer, however, and they move on. Eventually, they arrive at a dead end.
Danid scrapes her finger on the wall, and they hear a click. She slides the
door aside. On the other side, they are standing on a ledge overlooking
expansive fields of mushrooms of every variety below them. Some way off, they
see the mushrooms are green and flickering.

Halt (with Danid) guards the door, while Dave and Pomin go to test fire on the
infected mushrooms. Fluffy flies overhead. The fire singes the mushroom they
hold it to, and eventually the blight on those shrooms shrieks, the mushroom
dies, and it is no longer infected. Stepping on mushrooms manages to kill the
blight only on the portion of the mushroom stepped on.

From the tall mushrooms ahead emerge many blight spores. They all look like
orcs. Halt shoots one of his few arrows at them and misses. Dave and Pomin
stick around to fight.

Halt hears footsteps coming down the hallway behind him. It's Gautil and the
militia, ill-equipped but ready to fight. They join Dave and Pomin. Dave
suggests they could use alcohol to make Molotov cocktails and see how many they
could burn. Gautil agrees that that's a good idea, and sends two militia orcs
off to her office to get some ("I have quite a stock," she says).

Dave and Pomin keep fighting. Pomin takes out two of them. Dave keeps getting
injured by them. Fluffy as a bat tries to dislodge a rock from the ceiling, and
succeeds. It falls and injures one of the spores. However, immediately after
she does this, the brand on her hand burns hot, forcing her to land and
transform back into a squirrel.

Just as this happens, Kaea and the two orcs emerge from the tunnel, each with a
clinking bag of alcohol over their shoulder, Kaea with an additional bag full
of treasure. Kaea greets Halt. They show up next to Dave and Pomin, and begin
throwing cocktails into the fields. The fire doesn't spread, but it does kill
the blight where it lands. Kaea says something to Dave along the lines of "You
and me have to have a talk after this". He has a large lump on his head.

Fluffy finds the further from the group of Dave, Pomin, Kaea, and the militia
she moves, the less her paw burns, but they stronger she feels a tug on her
mind to go there.

During the fight, Kaea, still a bit woozy after his injury, stumbles over his
treasure bag and a medium sized wooded box tumbles out. Fluffy has the
overwhelming urge to go and open it. She approaches, and as she gets closer,
her paw hurts more until it feels like it's actually on fire. She flips open
the box, and inside is a sickle with a crescent moon shape (not even blade
width, wider in the middle, like a crescent moon). Under the sickle at the
bottom of the box is etched the image of an anvil. She transforms into an elf
and takes the sickle out. However, she is overcome with some strange power, and
starts walking towards Halt and Danid. She fights it and manages to break free
of the influence, transforming into a bat.

The sickle, however, is sent flying and lands by Kaea's feet. He bends down to
pick it up, and Halt, fearing what might happen, looses an arrow at him. Kaea,
now standing at full height, just catches the arrow in front of his face. His
eyes are fully red.

He approaches Dave, and the blight shrieks and dies around him as he walks.
He's smiling in a friendly manner, which is still offset by his eyes. He speaks
in a resonant voice, full of harmonic depth, displaying as much tonal skill in
speech as a singer might in song. He introduces himself as [[moktan]], God of
Death and War, and asks Dave to join him in bringing Folendemkar back to its
old days of glory. Dave seems very enthusiastic about this, and throws in that
he really thought the guy Moktan is possessing was kind of an asshole anyway.

Moktan again begins walking towards Halt and Danid. Halt tries to throw a
dagger at him while [[scath]] attacks, but he simply pushes Sc√°th through the
air against the wall, and cuts the dagger in half with the sickle. Dave and
Fluffy try to stop him. Fluffy tries to convince him that they can bring down
the government without killing its leaders. He is not convinced. Danid is
taking a swig from her flask, and Halt grabs it from her, rips off part of his
sleeve, and sticks it in the flask, setting it on fire. He then tries to shove
it into Moktan's mouth. He misses, but the cocktail smashes to the ground and
catches Moktan's robes on fire. He shakes them off and drops them to the
ground. He pushes Halt and he flies into the wall. Then Moktan reaches Danid
and says "I will hold your mother as collateral. You are in my employ, and I
will not release you from it until our task is done. At that time, I will
release your mother as well." He places his hand on her shoulder, and she falls
dead.
